---
layout: post
title: Donut Shop Part 2
tweetText: AWS SSO Pain
---

<h3>The Problem</h3>
Now that I've decided to learn and use [AWS Cloud Development Kit][aws_cdk]{:target="_blank"}, I've got to [configure programmatic access][aws_programmatic_access]{:target="_blank"}.  As I stand on the shore, looking out into the broad, deep ocean that is AWS, I'm a bit nervous.  IAM has always confused me, even with guardrails.  Now I've got to figure out how to set this up on my own!

<h3>My Approach</h3>
I've started by creating a basic, free account in AWS.  With that in place, it's time to roll up my sleeves.  

After thrashing around for a bit (and asking the universe why AWS has to be so !@#%@#% complicated!?!), I stumbled across this ["getting started" guide][aws_getting_started]{:target="_blank"} that made things very simple!

Once through it, I have the following in place:

1. An admin user, separate from my root user.
2. A config file on my machine that allows me to use this account to run aws cli
3. A cloud9 instance!  This is AWS's cloud IDE, looks pretty cool.  I created as part of the tutorial, but have no need yet, so I'll delete it (no idea if it will start costing me money!)

<h3>Next up</h3>
Now that I've got AWS CLI right where I want it, I will turn back to learning the AWS CDK.  With that, I hope to setup a stack I can use for the donut shop backend (eg, DynamoDB, Lambda, and API Gateway).

[aws_cdk]: https://aws.amazon.com/cdk/
[aws_programmatic_access]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cdk/v2/guide/getting_started.html#getting_started_auth
[aws_getting_started]: https://aws.amazon.com/getting-started/guides/setup-environment/