---
layout: post
title: Svelte - Walking thru Tutorial
tweetText: A play-by-play of the experience of walking through Svelte's deligthful online tutorial
---

<h3>Svelte</h3>

[Svelte][svelte] is [reactive][reactive] Javascript framework that hit the scene a few years ago.  Svelte differs from other reactive frameworks in that it builds the reactivity in the compilation stage, rather than relying on the Virtual DOM running in the browser.  This results in a smaller download, and usually a faster runtime experience.  This blog post will walk through their awesome [tutorial][svelte tutorial].  I provide some of my own examples, but often just copy some of the code directly from the Svelte tutorial.

<h3>Getting Started</h3>

The tutorial follows a common format, with instructions on the left (with a table of contents dropdown), and a javascript sandbox on the right.  I'm occasionally blown away at how far this "sandbox" concept has come along - something very meta about using elegant to teach elegant javascript.  A cool feature for those that like to look under the hood is the "JS Output" and "CS Output" tabs in the lower right.  With these, you can see the actual javascript generated by the Svelte compiler.  Very useful for gaining a deeper understanding of what's happening.

<h3>Introduction</h3>

<h4>Binding</h4>

Out of the gate, the introduction introduces [simple binding][tutorial simple binding].  Using something like the following, you can easily bind variables to HTML:

```
<script>
	let name = 'world';
</script>

<h1>Hello {name}!</h1>
```

Pretty self explanatory.  Looking at the underlying JS output, it gets a little hairy, but thankfully I don't need to understand the raw JS (yet).

<h4>A11y</h4>

A discovery made in this [section][tutorial dynamic attributes] - Svelte's compiler will warn you if you're missing [A11y][a11y] (accessibility) tags.  This is a thoughtful inclusion to the framework.  A11y is often overlooked, but the people who depend on it benefit so greatly from it.  Kudos to the Svelte team for prioritizing this feature.

<h4>Styling</h4>

[Styling][tutorial styling] in Svelte is straightforward - in its simplest form, just drop a style block within your component.  These component level style blocks are scoped to the component, so they won't overwrite styles elsewhere.  Nice encapsulation.

<h4>Nested Components</h4>
[Nested Components][tutorial nested components] allow you to build a hierarchy of components, allowing you to keep your components small and singular.  This promotes re-use and avoids code sprawl.

<h4>Making an App</h4>
The introduction [wraps up][tutorial making app] with an overview of how to take these simple concepts, and build an actual app.  Example build tools, and code editors are suggested.  

<h3>Reactivity</h3>

Now that the rudimentary basics are covered, the tutorial dives into reactivity.  This is where the framework really supercharges things, and it's quickly apparent why "reactivity" is so prevalent in modern Javascript development.  Once you go reactive, you won't go back (tive?)

<h4>Assignments</h4>

The [assignments][tutorial assignments] section provides a simple example of binding an event handler to a button, and incrementing a variable.  It also briefly mentions that when you assign a variable within Svelte, it *instruments* the assignment.  This is a key feature of the Svelte framework, and one that makes it so easy to use.  I can write code like this:

```
	count += 1;
```

And under the covers, the Svelte compiler produces this:

```
    $$invalidate(0, count += 1);
```

Ugly framework boilerplate is hidden from view, but it allows my app to be fluidly reactive.  It feels like the best of both worlds - simple javascript, powerful runtime.

<h4>Reactive Declarations</h4>

There are often assignments in javascript that aren't quite so simple - for example, if you have a value *based* on another value, like the following (copied liberally from the Svelte tutorial):

```
let count = 0;
doubled = count * 2;
```

While Svelte can "automatically instrument" the first line, the second line is more challenging.  Svelte overcomes this with a custom syntax, hijacking the Javascript "labeled statement":

```
let count = 0;
$: doubled = count * 2;
```

How badass is that?  Still using standard Javascript (with a little to never-used operator), but it takes on power all its on within Svelte.  Looking at the generated Javascript, we can see some intense boilerplate code we never need to worry about:

```
	$$self.$$.update = () => {
		if ($$self.$$.dirty & /*count*/ 1) {
			$: $$invalidate(1, doubled = count * 2);
		}
	};
```

<h3>Reactive Statements</h3>

[Reactive Statements][tutorial reactive statements] take this concept even further, allowing us to designate entire blocks of code as "reactive".  Here's an example from the tutorial:

```
$: if (count >= 10) {
	alert(`count is dangerously high!`);
	count = 9;
}
```

This is super cool - in addition to having the screen update in response to a value change, we can now trigger blocks of code based on a value.

<h3>Updating Arrays and Objects</h3>

When you get into the more complicated scenarios with [objects and arrays][tutorial arrays objects] there are some additional things to consider (nothing horribly complicated).  A good rule of them is provided for determing whether an assignment will trigger "reactivity":  The name of the updated variable must appear on the left hand side of the assignment.  This feels like an area where some simple mistakes might be made as you're learning the framework.  Good to make note of it and look for it to happen.

[svelte]: https://svelte.dev
[svelte tutorial]: https://svelte.dev/tutorial/basics
[a11y]: https://www.a11yproject.com/
[tutorial simple binding]: https://svelte.dev/tutorial/adding-data
[tutorial dynamic attributes]: https://svelte.dev/tutorial/dynamic-attributes
[tutorial styling]: https://svelte.dev/tutorial/styling
[tutorial nested components]: https://svelte.dev/tutorial/nested-components
[tutorial making app]: https://svelte.dev/tutorial/making-an-app
[tutorial assignments]: https://svelte.dev/tutorial/reactive-assignments
[tutorial reactive declarations]: https://svelte.dev/tutorial/reactive-declarations
[tutorial reactive statements]: https://svelte.dev/tutorial/reactive-statements
[tutorial arrays objects]: https://svelte.dev/tutorial/updating-arrays-and-objects