
---
layout: post
title: Readings and musings, 2/5/2021
tweetText: Readings and musings, 2/5/2021 - This week we have ...
---

<h3>Overview</h3>

<h3>The Internet Country - How India created a digital blueprint for the economies of the future</h3>
[link][internet country]

There's a [famous line][future uneven] about tech and society - "The future is already here, it’s just unevenly distributed".  Living in the US, I've been able to reap the rewards of living in a first-world country and economy.  However, with the advance of mobile technology and the internet, new possibilities have emerged for facilitating things like identity and banking.  Other countries are making huge strides in these areas, with some already well ahead of what we've got here in the US.  

This article highlights the "India Stack", which consists of 3 main pillars:

* Identity - everyone has a digital identity, removing the need for cumbersome paperwork-based authentication.
* Payments - mobile payments are king, with super cheap transactions allowing a near-frictionless economy.
* Data - people control their data, and can share it as necessary with various providers and third parties.

What seems to be emerging is an "API for life".  Government and industry have thoughtfully built these 3 primitives, and an enormous ecosystem of apps and services is growing on top of it.  These 3 pillars are attacking real-life "papercuts", and removing so much friction.  Bill Gates is quoted in the article as saying "India is on the cusp of leapfrogging", and the data in the article backs this up.

While it's discouraging to see the US falling behind in this area, it's not a zero sum game.  The lessons and technologies developed in India will be repeatable elsewhere.  They are forging a path that we can follow.  Additionally, US-based companies such as Google are heavily involved in the Indian effort, and are lobbying the US government to do similar things here.  There are concerns around privacy and "big brother" that we'll need to solve.  But it seems clear that India is already reaping massive rewards from this infrastructure, and the results speak for themselves.  

<h3>Conclusion</h3>


[internet country]: https://tigerfeathers.substack.com/p/the-internet-country
[future uneven]: https://quoteinvestigator.com/2012/01/24/future-has-arrived